Email Mining Toolkit.
Version 3.9 README Oct 2008

This README file describes first time setup.

please see EMTUserManual_???.pdf and EMTTechManual_???.pdf for additional Info. about the toolkit.

pre-req:
1) This application requires the following to be installed:

a) Java 1.5 or better  
	(see: http://java.sun.com Note: J2SE-JRE is also fine)
	you can check if java is installed correcly by going to a terminal/command prompt and typing "java -version"

b) Optional:

For analyzing very large data sets, if the java database (default) is noticeably slow:
    
    -Mysql 5 or later
	(http://www.mysql.com)
	-use the tools provided by mysql for setting the MYSQL for root user and permissions.
	-NOTE: if possible you need to specify latin1 character support or  (bug in mysql with 1000 byte key limit) not UTF.	
	-IMPORTANT: setup to MYISAM database type when prompted. during installation.
	
	-after installation you will setup a root account, this can be used for emt or a user account can be setup. 
	 User accounts need to be granted permission to operate on newer databases, one can use the GUI server
	 setup program to set this up.
	
	-ALSO NEED TO SET 
	 max_allowed_packet=12000000
	 IN YOUR my.ini file to allow for larger email attachments.
		
	-postgres database can be used instead of mysql
			need to download and install postgress from their website.
	

2)

Note: For converting outlook and outlook express the following files are required:
	-readdbx.exe on windows, readdbx on linux.
	-cygwin1.dll (windows)
	-readpst.exe on windows, readpst on linux (note broken for outlook 2003).
        This should be included as part of the install package.
3)
For FIRST TIME USE:

type in a command window:

"java -jar emt.jar"


the first time you run emt a configuration window will pop up, please
note fill in the relevant data for db hookup and click on "save"
it will restart, now you can go the step 4.

For upgrades:

please delete any *.info files from the home directory.

4)

A batch file called emtclient.bat is created in the last step.
Use the emtclient.bat (or your own version of this) created by step 3, to run emt.
please note that if you have less than 256 meg ram, please edit this file to reflect this. 

enjoy!
------------------------------------------------
F.A.Q:

1) Can I use an old emt database.

A: Depending on which version you are running, its best to reimport the data
into emt. 

2) On Linux, when processing asian outlook files I get weird exceptions about "java.nio.charset.CoderResult.throwException"

A: set the LANG environment variable to handle extended characters in the following manner:
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

3) I've started EMT, but it seems frozen since it never switches to EMT and all it says is:
"Done date setup in Message window:"

A: try to hit the "enter" button. If that doesnt work, please hit ctrl + c
to cancel and try to restart

4) EMT Froze, I've restarted and am given choices, which one should I choose.

A: first try to click on "ignore" and see if EMT starts. If that doesnt work, try to click on "clean data". if that doesn't work
you might need to empty the database to restart, please see question 5, on how to let us know about it.


5) What if something else goes wrong:

A: if its a loading frozen problem, try to give it a little time, as certain cache files are created the first time around, if its a cache problem, you will need to delete all the .info files to fix it
check the help button, user manual or tech manual. 
Or else email: Shlomo@cs.columbia.edu
Include the version, operating system, java version, and the error message and describtion.
Please make the subject "EMT problem"
